now it came to pass a long time after
the Lord had given rest to Israel from
all their enemies round about that
Joshua was old advanced in age and
Joshua called for all Israel for their
elders for their heads for their judges
and for their officers and said to them
I am old advanced in age you have seen
all that the Lord your God has done to
all these nations because of you for the
Lord your God
as he who has fought for you see I have
divided to you by lot these nations that
remain to be an inheritance for your
tribes from the Jordan with all the
nations that I have cut off as far as
the Great Sea westward and the Lord your
God will expel them from before you and
drive them out of your sight
so you shall possess their land as the
Lord your God promised you therefore be
very courageous to keep and to do all
that is written in the book of the law
of Moses lest you turn aside from it to
the right hand or to the left and lest
you go among these nations these who
remain among you you shall not make
mention of the name of their gods nor
cause anyone to swear by them you shall
not serve them nor bow down to them but
you shall hold fast to the Lord your God
as you have done to this day for the
Lord has driven out from before you
great and strong nations but as for you
no one has been able to stand against
you to this day one man of you shall
chase a thousand for the Lord your God
is he who fights for you as he promised
you therefore take careful heed to
yourselves that you love the Lord your
God or else if indeed you do go back and
cling to the remnant of these nations
these that remain among you and make
marriages with them and go into them and
lay to you know for certain that the
Lord your God will no longer drive out
these nations from before you
but they shall give snares and traps to
you and scourge us on your sides and
thorns in your eyes until you perish
from this good land which the Lord your
God has given you behold this day I am
going the way of all beers and you know
with all your hearts and in all your
souls that not one thing has failed of
all the good things which the Lord your
God spoke concerning hewed all have come
to pass for you not one word of them has
failed therefore it shall come to pass
that as all the good things have come
upon you which the Lord your God
promised
so the Lord will bring upon you all
harmful things until he has destroyed
you from this good land which the Lord
your God has given you when you have
transgressed the Covenant of the Lord
your God which he commanded you and have
gone and served other gods and bowed
down to them then the anger of the Lord
will burn against you and you shall
perish quickly from the good land which
he has given you
[Music]